The theme for this month's program is appreciating our gifts and men.
Who of us does not enjoy being given a fine, well-chosen gift?
For example, you brothers.
Do you not take pleasure in receiving a colorful, but tasteful, 100% silk tie?
Are you sisters? Do you not delight in being given an exquisite, charming silk scarf?
But what if you took that silk tie or silk scarf and used it to polish your shoes?
How do you think the giver of your gift would feel if he saw you using his gift in that way?
Obviously, it would be misused and disrespect for the gift and would insult the giver.
What is the point of our illustration?
Will Jehovah and Jesus have given us a fine, well-chosen gift in the form of the elders?
But as we will discuss, all of us must make sure that we always show appreciation and respect for this divine provision.
Please turn to Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 8.
And let's read about this gift that Jehovah and Jesus have given us.
It reads, for it says, when he ascended on high, he carried away captives.
He gave gifts in men.
You notice, by means of Jesus' perfect integrity, Jesus conquered Satan and his world.
As a world conqueror, figuratively, he has plundered captives and has given them his gifts to the congregations.
How useful are these gifts in men?
Well, please look at verses 11 and 12 for the answer.
And he gave some as apostles, some as prophets, some as evangelizers, some as shepherds and teachers.
And the view to the re-adjustment of the holy ones for ministerial work to build up the body of the Christ.
Notice, they would be evangelizers taking the lead in the all-important preaching and disciple-making work.
They do not simply say to the publishers, go in the preaching work.
They come, come with us.
Let's work together in this never-to-be-repeated work.
They are also shepherds, protecting the flock from Satan, the murderer, serpent, dragon, and lion.
Additionally, they are teachers, feeding the flock with nourishing spiritual food.
Now we ask, how does Jehovah tell us that we should feel about these hard-working gifts in men?
Let's go to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 and let's get the answer.
1 Thessalonians 5, beginning in verse number 12.
Notice what Jehovah says.
We request you, brothers, to show respect for those who are working hard among you and presiding over you in the Lord and it monitoring you and to give them extraordinary consideration in love because of their work.
Be peaceable with one another.
Notice, we're told to show respect for these dear brothers.
But now let's move to a vital question.
How can we show, demonstrate, that we do deeply respect and appreciate these dear brothers?
The first way, by wholeheartedly cooperating with them.
Please turn to Hebrews chapter 13 and verse number 17.
In this scripture describes how deep our cooperation should be.
Verse 17, be obedient to those who are taking the lead among you and be submissive
for they are keeping watch over you as those who will render an account so that they may do this with joy and not with sign.
For this would be damaging to you.
Notice, we are told to be obedient.
Clearly, this means that we're supposed to comply with or obey what they tell us.
Of course, that would be with a proviso unless they tell us to do something that is unscriptual.
And of course, that would be extremely rare.
We're also told to be submissive.
This includes the attitude with which we're to be obedient, doing so with a yielding, positive attitude.
Would it be possible to be obedient, but not submissive?
Well, what if we said, okay, I'll do what the elders suggest.
I don't want to do it, but I'll do it.
We would be obedient, but not submissive.
However, Jehovah tells us to display both of these qualities.
We should be obedient and submissive, even if what the elders are asking us to do is not the best, most efficient way to do something.
Permit me to illustrate this point.
Admittedly, the illustration is somewhat exaggerated, but hopefully it will make the point.
Please imagine that the elders decide that the outside of the kingdom hall needs to be painted,
and that all the publishers will be given a small two-inch paintbrush with which to paint.
Now, what could happen?
The publishers could get all upset concerning this request of the elders saying,
it is ridiculous that the elders want us to paint with a small two-inch paintbrush.
Consequently, some could start campaigning for the right for everyone to use a six-inch paintbrush.
Others might campaign for using paint rollers to roll the paint on the kingdom hall.
Still others might start trying to build support for renting and using a paint sprayer to spray the paint on the kingdom hall.
In another camp, once might champion the idea of hiring out to a contractor, the painting of the kingdom hall.
While another group is promoting the idea that the kingdom hall doesn't even need to be painted.
Now, what would be the outcome?
The congregation would be divided.
The kingdom hall would never get painted.
Publishers could end up stumbled right out of the truth.
The elders would be very discouraged.
Jehovah would be sad, and Satan would be made very happy.
On the other hand, what if everyone humbly supported the elders?
Perhaps thinking there's no scripture that says we can't paint with a two-inch paintbrush?
In fact, Hebrews 13, 17 tells us to be obedient and submissive to the elders.
So why don't we go ahead and support the elders?
Now, what would be the outcome?
The kingdom hall we get painted.
The publishers would get to enjoy a lot of good association because they'd be working together for a long time.
The elders would be very encouraged.
Satan would be sad, and Jehovah's heart would be made glad.
Well, what is the point of this hyperbole illustration?
Being obedient and submissive to those taking the lead is much more important than how something is done.
That is the attitude that Jehovah will richly bless.
But now, a second way we can demonstrate that we deeply appreciate these dear brothers is to pray for that.
Please note what the elder Paul urged the brothers to do for him at Romans chapter 15, verse number 30.
Here Paul said,
Now, I urge you brothers through our Lord Jesus Christ and through the love of the Spirit that you exert yourselves with me in prayers to God for me.
Paul recognized the power that he would derive as a result of others praying for him.
And your local elders feel the same way.
But the question is, in your personal private prayers, do you regularly thank Jehovah for your gifts and men and entreat Jehovah to richly supply them with his powerful Holy Spirit?
Our answer to that question can reveal much about our appreciation for these hardworking elders.
Now, let's move to a third way that we can demonstrate deep appreciation.
We can do so by commending the elders.
Here is a soul searching question.
Do you periodically go up to various elders and say something like,
Brother Elder, we just want to thank you for your hard work.
Please be assured that we appreciate it.
However, it seems that some publishers never ever commend the elders or express appreciation.
Might this not indicate that we are taking them in their hard work for granted?
Of course, they will not quit if you do not give them commendation.
They primarily do their work for Jehovah.
But if you do express appreciation, believe me, it will be most encouraging to them.
And even though it may really surprise the elder the very first time you do this, please do not hold back this good from those to whom it is owing.
Appropriately, Jehovah tells us that Proverbs 327 do not withhold good from those to whom you should give it if it is within your power to help.
And one thing that will move us to be more aware of commending the elders is to remember all the good work they are doing.
Many elders are family men who must work securely to provide for their families.
If he has children, these young ones need time and attention from their father.
He may need to help them with their schoolwork, as well as schedule time for them to enjoy wholesome recreation.
Most important, he cares for the spiritual needs of his family.
Regularly conducting family worship, working with them in the ministry and taking them to meetings.
But in addition to these numerous responsibilities common to many of us, they have voluminous additional responsibilities as elders.
And much of the elders' hard work in our behalf is not seen by the congregation.
For example, you may see an elder giving a part on the meeting.
What you didn't see are the hours he spent preparing that part.
How long does it take you to prepare a student assignment on the midweek meeting?
Some elders have a part every week, sometimes more than one.
While gaining experience and speaking is certainly helpful, the fact remains that good talks require hard work.
But that is not all the elders do. They have shepherding costs to make, and judicial cases to handle.
Some elders are also busy helping to build kingdom halls and branch facilities serving on hospital liaison committees, volunteering at assemblies and conventions.
And elders do many other things that are too numerous to recount.
What we see is often only the tip of the iceberg. 90% of an iceberg is unseen underwater.
At 2 Timothy 4-6, the Apostle Paul referred to himself as being poured out like a drink offering.
A drink offering was poured on the altar and went up in smoke.
That well describes how the elders likewise expend themselves.
Remembering all of this should move us to regularly offer sincere commendation to our hardworking elders.
Now, we have discussed ways that we can demonstrate that we deeply appreciate our gifts and men.
We should, number one, wholeheartedly cooperate with them.
Number two, pray for them.
Number three, commend them.
Thereby, we will prove that we are not even slightly like an unappreciative recipient of a silk tie or a silk scarf who uses that gift to polish his shoes.
To the contrary, we will prove to Jehovah and Jesus that we love respect and appreciate the divine gifts or gifts and men that they have so generously given to us.